# 0x345 Go

- [1. Language](#1-language)
    - [1.1. Variable](#11-variable)
    - [1.2. Basic Data Type](#12-basic-data-type)
        - [1.2.1. Integer](#121-integer)
- [2. Library](#2-library)
- [3. Reference](#3-reference)
## 1. Language

### 1.1. Variable

**Name** If an entity dclared within a function, it is local to the function, if outside, it is visible to all files within the same package. The case of the first letter of a name determins its visibility across package: upper-case means exported (e.g.: fmt.Println).

**Declaration**  A var declaration has the general form

```go
var name type = expression
```

where either the type or = expression may be ommitted. If the expression is omitted, the initial value is zero initialized (unlike C local scope).

The declaration also has a short version

```go
name := expression
```

where type is determied by the expression. Note that := is declaration and = is assignment in go

**Pointer** pointer generally work similarly as it does in C
The unique features of pointers in go are

- zero value for pointer is *nil*
- pointers are comparable, they are considered equal if they are pointing to the same variable or both nil
- pointer of a local variable can be returned from function, as pointer are managed by garbage collection.

**Life time** variable lives on until it becomes unreachable, at which point its storage maybe recycled. Interestingly, a compiler may choose to allocate local variables on the heap or on the stack.

**Package** Package is initialized in the following order
- one package is initialized at a time, in the order of imports in the program, dependencies first
- In each pacakge, each variable is initialized in the order of declaration, dependencies first
- init function also can be used for declaration.

### 1.2. Basic Data Type
#### 1.2.1. Integer

Go provides both signed and unsigned integer arithmetic, with 4 distinct sizes 8, 16, 32, 64

- The type rune is a synonym for int32 and conventionally indicates a unicode code point
- the type byte is a synonym for uint8
- uintptr is a type whose width is not specified but is sufficient to hold all bits of a pointer
  - Regardless of their size, int,uint are different types from their explicitly sized siblings, therefore int is not the same type as int32, even if the natural size is 32 bits.


## 2. Library

## 3. Reference
- The Go Programming Language